The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Bobbsey Twins on Blueberry Island, by
Laura Lee Hope


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: The Bobbsey Twins on Blueberry Island


Author: Laura Lee Hope



Release Date: January 7, 2007  [eBook #20311]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY
ISLAND***


E-text prepared by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, J. P. W. Fraser, Emmy, and
the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team
(http://www.pgdp.net/c/)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 20311-h.htm or 20311-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/0/3/1/20311/20311-h/20311-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/0/3/1/20311/20311-h.zip)





THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY ISLAND

by

LAURA LEE HOPE

          Author of "The Bobbsey Twins," "The Bunny
          Brown Series," "The Outdoor Girls
          Series," Etc.

Illustrated







New York
Grosset & Dunlap
Publishers
Made in the United States of America


       *       *       *       *       *


BOOKS BY LAURA LEE HOPE


THE BOBBSEY TWINS SERIES

          THE BOBBSEY TWINS
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN THE COUNTRY
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT THE SEASHORE
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SCHOOL
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT SNOW LODGE
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON A HOUSEBOAT
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT MEADOW BROOK
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS AT HOME
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS IN A GREAT CITY
          THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY ISLAND


THE BUNNY BROWN SERIES

          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE
          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE ON GRANDPA'S FARM
          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE PLAYING CIRCUS
          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AT AUNT LU'S CITY HOME
          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE AT CAMP REST-A-WHILE
          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE IN THE BIG WOODS
          BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE ON AN AUTO TOUR


THE OUTDOOR GIRLS SERIES

          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS OF DEEPDALE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT RAINBOW LAKE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A MOTOR CAR
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A WINTER CAMP
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN FLORIDA
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT OCEAN VIEW
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS ON PINE ISLAND


       *       *       *       *       *


Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York.
Copyright, 1917, by
Grosset & Dunlap.




THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY ISLAND


[Illustration: FREDDIE CAUGHT THE FIRST FISH.

_The Bobbsey Twins on Blueberry Island._ _Frontispiece_--(_Page 123_)]




CONTENTS


          CHAPTER                                         PAGE

              I. THE GYPSIES                    1
             II. A SURPRISE                    13
            III. WORRIED TWINS                 26
             IV. THE GOAT                      36
              V. A BUMPY RIDE                  47
             VI. JOLLY NEWS                    59
            VII. "WHERE IS SNAP?"              68
           VIII. OFF TO CAMP                   78
             IX. A NIGHT SCARE                 90
              X. THE "GO-AROUND" BUGS         103
             XI. THE BLUEBERRY BOY            112
            XII. THE DRIFTING BOAT            126
           XIII. IN THE CAVE                  137
            XIV. HELEN'S VISIT                147
             XV. THE DOLL'S DRESS             161
            XVI. SNOOP IS MISSING             170
           XVII. FREDDIE IS CAUGHT            179
          XVIII. FLOSSIE IS TANGLED           191
            XIX. THE TWINS FALL DOWN          202
             XX. THE QUEER NOISE              213
            XXI. "HERE COMES SNAP!"           221
           XXII. HAPPY DAYS                   231




THE BOBBSEY TWINS ON BLUEBERRY ISLAND


CHAPTER I

THE GYPSIES


"Oh, dear! I wish we weren't going home!"

"So do I! Can't we stay out a little while longer?"

"Why, Flossie and Freddie Bobbsey!" cried Nan, the older sister of the
two small twins who had spoken. "A few minutes ago you were in a hurry
to get home."

"Yes; they said they were so hungry they couldn't wait to see what Dinah
was going to have for supper," said Bert Bobbsey. "How about that,
Freddie?"

"Well, I'm hungry yet," said the little boy, who was sitting beside his
sister Flossie in a boat that was being rowed over the blue waters of
Lake Metoka. "I am hungry, and I want some of Dinah's pie, but I'd like
to stay out longer."

"So would I," added Flossie. "It's so nice on the lake, and maybe
to-morrow it will rain."

"Well, what if it does?" asked Nan. "You didn't expect to come out on
the lake again to-morrow, did you?"

"Maybe," answered Flossie, as she smoothed out the dress of a doll she
was holding in her lap.

"I'd like to come out on the lake and have a picnic every day," said
Freddie, leaning over the edge of the boat to see if a small ship, to
which he had fastened a string, was being pulled safely along.

"Don't do that!" cried Nan quickly. "Do you want to fall in?"

"No," answered Freddie slowly, as though he had been thinking that
perhaps a wetting in the lake might not be so bad after all. "No, I
don't want to fall in now, 'cause whenever I go in swimming I get
terrible hungry, and I don't want to be any hungrier than I am now."

"Oh, so that's the only reason, is it?" asked Bert with a laugh. "Well,
just keep inside the boat until we get on shore, and then you can fall
out if you want to."

"How am I going to fall out when the boat's on shore?" asked Freddie.
"Boats can't go on land anyhow, Bert Bobbsey!"

"That will be something for you to think about, and then maybe you won't
lean over and scare Nan," said Bert, smiling.

"Do you want I should land you at your father's lumber dock, or shall I
row on down near the house, Bert?" asked a man who was pulling at the
oars of the boat. "It won't make any difference to me. I've got lots of
time."

"Then, Jack, row us down near the house, if you don't mind," begged Nan.
"I want to get these two fat twins ashore as soon as I can; Freddie
especially, if he's going to almost fall overboard when I'm not
looking."

"I'm not going to fall overboard!" cried the little fat fellow. "Can't I
row, Jack?"

"Not now, Freddie. I'm in a hurry," answered the man, one of the workers
from Mr. Bobbsey's lumberyard.

"But you told Bert, just now, that you had lots of time," insisted
Freddie.

"Well--er--ahem--I haven't time to let you row, Freddie. Maybe I will
some other day," and Jack looked at Bert and smiled, while he said to
himself: "You've got to get up early in the morning to match a smart
chap like him," meaning Freddie, of course.

A short time before, the Bobbsey twins had returned from the city of New
York where they had spent a part of the winter. Now it was spring and
would soon be summer, and, as the day was a fine, warm one, they had
gone on a little picnic, taking their lunch with them and pretending to
camp on one of the many islands in the lake. Now they were on their way
home.

"Well, here you are, safe on shore!" announced Jack, as the twins called
Mr. Henderson, the man whom their father had sent with them to manage
the boat.

"Yes, and there goes Freddie--falling overboard!" cried Bert with a
laugh, as his little fat brother stumbled over a coil of rope on the
dock and tumbled down. "It's a good thing you didn't do that in the
boat, little fat fireman."

"I didn't hurt myself, anyhow," said Freddie, as he got up. "Come on,
Flossie, let's run home. I'm terrible hungry."

"So'm I," added his sister, who was as fat as he, and just the same
size. The two smaller Bobbsey twins started on ahead, while Bert, after
seeing that the boat was well tied, followed on more slowly with his
sister Nan.

"It was a nice ride we had," Nan said, "wasn't it, Bert?"

"Yes, it's great out on the lake. I wonder if we'll ever go camping as
we talked of when we were in New York?"

"Maybe. Let's tease mother to let us!"

"All right. You ask her and I'll ask father. There's one island in the
lake where----"

But Bert did not have a chance to finish what he was going to say, for
just then Flossie and Freddie, who had hurried on ahead, came running
back, surprise showing on their faces.

"Oh, Bert!" cried Freddie. "It's here! It's come!"

"Can we go to see it?" added Flossie. "Oh, I just want to!"

"What's here? What do you want to see? What is it?" asked Bert and Nan
together, taking turns at the questions.

"The circus is here!" answered Freddie.

"Circus?" asked Bert in surprise.

"Yep! We saw the wagons!" went on Flossie. "They're all red and yellow,
and they've got lookin' glasses all over the sides, and they have rumbly
wheels, like thunder, and horses with bells on and--and----"

"You'd better save a little of your breath to eat some of the good
things you think Dinah is going to cook for you," said Nan with a laugh,
as she put her arms around her small sister. "Now what is it all about?"

"It's a circus!" cried Freddie.

"We saw the wagons going along the street where our house is," added
Flossie. "All red and yellow and---- Oh, look!" she suddenly cried.
"There they are now!"

She pointed excitedly down the side street, on which the Bobbsey twins
then were, toward the main street of Lakeport, where the Bobbsey family
lived. Nan and Bert, as well as Flossie and Freddie, saw three or four
big wagons, gaily painted red and yellow, and with glittering pieces of
looking glass on their sides. The prancing horses drawing the wagons had
bells around their necks and a merry, tinkling jingle sounded, making
music wherever the horses went.

Bert and Nan gave one look at the wagons, and then they both laughed.
Flossie and Freddie glanced up in surprise at their older brother and
sister.

"Look what they thought was a circus!" chuckled Bert.

"Isn't it?" asked Flossie. "Isn't that a circus?"

"No, dear," answered Nan. "Don't laugh so much," she said to Bert, as
she saw that the two small twins felt hurt. "They do look something like
circus wagons."

"They _are_ circus wagons!" declared Freddie. "And pretty soon the
elephants will come past. I like elephants."

"You won't see any elephants to-day," said Bert. "That isn't a circus
procession."

"What is it?" Flossie demanded.

"Those are gypsy wagons," explained Nan. "Gypsies, you know, are those
queer people, who are dark-skinned. They wear rings in their ears and
live in wagons like those. They ride all over the country and tell
fortunes. I wanted to have my fortune told by a gypsy once, but mother
wouldn't let me," she added.

"It's silly!" declared Bert. "Just as if a gypsy could tell you what's
going to happen!"

"Well, Lillie Kent had hers told," went on Nan, "and the gypsy looked at
her hand and said she was going to have trouble, and she did."

"What?" asked Flossie eagerly.

"She lost a nickel a week after that--a nickel she was going to buy a
lead pencil with."

"Pooh!" laughed Bert, "she'd have lost the nickel anyhow. But say, there
are lots of gypsies in this band! I've counted five wagons so far."

"Maybe they're going to have a circus," insisted Freddie, who did not
like to give up the idea of seeing a show.

"Course they're going to have a circus," said Flossie. "Look at all the
horses," for behind the last two wagons were trotting a number of
horses, being led along by men seated in the ends of the bright-colored
wagons. The men had straps which were fastened to the heads of the
animals.

"No; gypsies don't give shows. They buy and sell horses," said Bert.
"I've seen 'em here in Lakeport before, but not so many as this. I guess
they're going to make a camp somewhere on Lake Metoka."

"Maybe we'll see 'em when we go camping," said Freddie.

"It isn't yet sure that we're going," returned Nan. "But, come on. There
are no more gypsy wagons to see, and we must get home."

Flossie and Freddie, somewhat disappointed that, after all, it was not a
circus procession they had seen, started off again. They wished they
could have seen more of the gypsies, but the gay wagons rumbled on out
of sight, though this was not the last the Bobbsey twins were to see of
them. In fact, they were to meet the gypsies again, and to have quite an
adventure with them before the summer was over.

"Well, we had a good time, anyhow," said Freddie to Flossie. "And we
_almost_ saw a circus, didn't we?"

"Yep," answered his sister. "I'm going to be a gypsy when I grow up."

"Why?" asked Freddie.


"'Cause they've got so many looking glasses on their wagons."

"I'm going to be a gypsy, too," decided Freddie, after thinking it over
a bit. "'Cause they've got so many horses. I'm going to ride horseback,
and you can ride in one of the wagons, Flossie."

"No. I'm going to ride horseback, too," declared the little girl. "I'm
going to have a spangly thing in my hair and wear a dress all glittery
and stand on the horse's back and ride----"

"Gypsies don't do that," protested Bert. "It's the people in circuses
that ride standing up."

"Gypsies do too," declared Freddie, not knowing a thing about it but
feeling he must back up anything Flossie said.

"No, they don't, either."

"Well, maybe they have gypsies in a circus. They have Indians, you
know."

"I don't believe they do," put in Nan. "Gypsies wouldn't like to be in a
tent and work every afternoon and every evening. They want to live in
their wagons and be more out of doors."

"Well, maybe we'll be gypsies and maybe we'll be in a circus," said
Freddie. "We'll see, won't we, Flossie?"

"Yep."

By this time the Bobbsey twins had reached their house, or rather, they
had turned the corner of the street leading out from the lake, and were
in sight of their home. What they saw caused Bert, Nan, Flossie and
Freddie to set out on a run. In front of their house was a crowd of
people. There were men, women and children, and among them the twins
could see their mother, fat Dinah, the cook, and Sam Johnson, her
husband, who attended to the Bobbsey furnace in winter and the lawn in
summer.

"What's the matter?" asked Nan.

"Something has happened!" cried Bert.

"The house is on fire!" shouted Freddie. "I must get my fire engine that
squirts real water!" and he raced on ahead.

"Wait a minute!" called Bert.

The Bobbsey twins saw their mother coming quickly toward them. She held
out her arms and cried:

"Oh, I'm so glad you're safe!"

"Why, what's the matter?" asked Flossie.

"I can't just say," answered her mother; "but Helen Porter can't be
found. Her mother has looked everywhere for her, but can't find her."

"She's been carried off by the gypsies!" exclaimed John Marsh, an
excited boy about Bert's age. "The gypsies took her! I saw 'em!"

"You did?" asked Bert.

"Sure I did! A man! Dark, with a red sash on, and gold rings in his
ears! He picked Helen up in his arms and went off with her! She's in one
of the gypsy wagons now!"

When John told this Flossie and Freddie huddled closer to their mother.




CHAPTER II

A SURPRISE


"What's all this? What's the matter?" asked a voice on the outside
fringe of the crowd that had gathered in front of the Bobbsey home, and,
looking up, Bert saw his father coming down the street from the
direction of his lumberyard. "Has anything happened?" asked Mr. Bobbsey,
after a glance had shown him that his own little family was safe and
sound.

"Dere suah has lots done gone an' happened, Mistah Bobbsey," answered
fat Dinah. "Oh, de pore honey lamb! Jest t' think ob it!"

"But who is it? What has happened?" asked Mr. Bobbsey, looking about for
some one to answer him. Flossie and Freddie decided they would do this.

"It's gypsies," said the little "fat fireman," as his father sometimes
called Freddie.

"And they carried off Helen Porter," added the little "fat fairy," which
was Flossie's pet name. "An' I saw the wagons, all lookin' glasses, an'
Freddie an' I are goin' to be gypsies when we grow up." Flossie was so
excited that she dropped a lot of "g" letters from the ends of words
where they belonged.

"You don't mean to say that the gypsies have carried off Helen
Porter--the little girl who lives